We have a question?
>> If the button has a specific
class name and we define styles for
the class outside of the web component,
those styles still don't apply.
>> Excellent segue into
[SOUND] my next slide.
Okay, so
we couldn't start deep style, right?
So what about classes?
That's the next thing, right, classes.
Classes work everywhere, right?
That's what I thought [LAUGH] until this.
So pink is background, so in
the Shadow DOM, this is background pink.
Classes should work, right?
If it does not work, Frustrating,
right, because, again,
breaks the expectation, I wrote pink up
top, it should work down in the component.
To be honest,
this may have massive implications for
utility class sites like tailwind and
stuff like that.
But there is a way, there's actually
a few ways, there's old ways and
modern ways to get those styles,
those classes.
But basically cuz it's the same rule,
I didn't author it so I don't control it.
And you could also think
of this as class collision.
If I'm using Google's
material web button and
I style whatever material
web button from the parent,
Google doesn't want it to change.
They want it to still look like
material web button or whatever.
Okay, but there is a way if you're
authoring, you can trick it.
Do you want to learn that way?
It's fun to learn, but
it'll make you feel gross.
So link rel="stylesheet", okay?
And then src, and then we're
actually just gonna you link that,
this is a CodePen feature.
But you can go to any CodePen and
type the extension off the end of it.
And it'll like,
I'll just give you the CSS part.
So we're going to basically double
link the style sheet, right?
We're linking to a style sheet
from within the component.
And, let's see here,
hold on, now save it and
refresh it cuz that was working this
morning, let me see what's going on.
Link rel ="stylesheet", correct?
You all should have caught that,
come on Frontend Masters.
[SOUND] So, all right, so
you can inject style sheets
by the old link tag.
Yeah, it doesn't feel great, [LAUGH] but
this would be a way to do it.
There's actually more
modern ways to do it.
But that starts getting into the,
Not supported in everything realm and
so I'd be happy to talk about it.
But there's a feature
called adoptedStyleSheets.
And it's very cool, I'm very excited
about it, but it's not ubiquitous,
I don't think quite yet.
Yes, another question?
>> Can we add the part
attribute on the element and
target it from the outside
using a pseudo selector part?
>> Yeah, we totally can and
that's jumping ahead like two slides.
So I'll get there in two slides,
is that okay?
But we can totally use part to grab stuff.
Okay, so
global classes we learned doesn't really
work unless we go the weird way [LAUGH],
yeah?
>> On the kind of same track,
if the mode is open and so
that the component is
accessible by JavaScript.
Is it possible and
probably not recommended but
to set attributes via JavaScript
just like imperatively,
is that something that works as well or
does the Shadow DOM protect against?
>> You can, yeah,
if it has a shadow root you can append
a style block inside the element as well.
So there are ways,
it's just nothing's cool,
[LAUGH] until you get
to adoptedStyleSheets.
And, again, if you're using stuff off
the shelf, you maybe don't control that.
If it's closed,
you can't get in but if it's open,
you might be able to get in and
futz with it.
So that's just an example.
So I guess I could show that but
that's maybe a deep dive but, yeah.
One thing that does kind of work is
this idea of inheritable styles.
And I didn't know what these were,
I had to look it up on MDN.
Quite literally, it's anything that
can have the value inherit in CSS.
But you might think of it as something
that might cascade down into an iframe.
If you set the color or the font size or
something or the, I guess,
what font family.
Yeah, if you sent colors and fonts and
stuff you would sorta expect an iframe
to have some of the same behaviors.
It's a loose thing, but I think it's
sort of, these styles can go everywhere.
It's sort of a, these are blessed
solutions, blessed styles.
But I think you'd want it for
any sort of importing or frames,
probably this is old
technology related to frames.
So we have some like Light DOM texts and
a Light DOM button with our button
duplicator duplicates the buttons.
And then we have font
family have fantasy and
we're trying to get the button to do it.
But I'll explain that, so it's just
going to duplicate it right and then.
So you'll notice the Light DOM
button actually obeys the font but
the Shadow DOM button does not.
This is another weird bit,
more specifically maybe with buttons and
replaced elements and how they it's
like the system UIs Lbuttons show up in
the Shadow DOM and stuff like that.
So you don't have as much control.
But I would have expected
that to sort of work but
it does not in the Shadow realm,
and so that's too bad.
[LAUGH] Frustrating to say the least.
But like it's good to know at least some
things kind of cascade down through.
So this does work but this can be, again,
if positive or negative, you're like,
why is the text read on my inputs,
I don't understand.
Well, it's cuz something bled into it.
So as good as our egg solution is,
some stuff still goes through.